---
# Please do not edit this file directly; it is auto generated.
# Instead, please edit 01-introduction.md in _episodes_rmd/
title: "Introduction"
teaching: 10
exercises: 0
questions:
- "What do we try to accomplish when we perform data analysis?"
- "Why would a researcher use R for public health analysis?"
- "What are the benefits of adopting reproducible research practices?"
objectives:
- "Characterize typical public health data analysis steps"
- "Describe pros and cons of different statistical software"
- "Define 'reproducibility' and related terms"
keypoints:
- "First key point. Brief Answer to questions. (FIXME)"
---



## What is data analysis?

## What are the typical steps involved with public health data analysis?

- Reading in data collected for a study or multiple studies.  

## Reasons for using R versus other statistical software, Python, etc.

- Expensive licenses, proprietary formats -- do these go against the ideas of reproducible (& collaborative) sceince?  Do these exclude scientists in parts of the world and/or institutions with less funding?
- Script/code versus "point & click" (only apples )
- versus other open-source options (e.g. Python).   Depends what people in your field are using.  What are people in Public Health using?   Best might be to learn multiple tools and get a feel for what to reach for for a given problem.  Good for different problems and for being able to participate in a wider range of projects.
- Support for all* operating systems (See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_statistical_packages#Operating_system_support)
- what else?

> ## To think about: What do you want to make sure you're able to do in R?
>
> If you've never done any programming before, what research goals are you hoping that learning
> to program in R will help you achieve?
>
> If you have experience using other statistical software packages, what are some things you like
> about the packages you've used?  What are some things you didn't like?
>
{: .callout}

### R for Reproducible Science

What do we mean when we say we'd like to practice "reproducible" science work in R?

Bring in the "reproducible science" paper and follow the main points through the lesson.  Bring them in here.

### What else?



